jointing your own chicken is a really
economical way of buying chicken instead
of buying separate legs and breast
joints so I'm going to show you what to
do I've got my chicken here ready to go
and first of all you need to take a
small knife we're gonna turn the chicken
over and we're going to make a cut all
the way along the backbone that's going
to help us out later when we want to
take the legs off we're gonna take a
cross cut across here just sort of where
the thighs meet the body so cross like
that and just here what we call the
oysters and they are the most delicious
sweet nugget of meat that you have
attached to the thigh meat so I'm going
to loosen those off ready when we take
the legs off in the moment so just poke
your knife under and around okay
brilliant now turn your chicken back
over and the next I'm going to do is cut
either side of the thighs I'm going to
pull the skin up on the breast you want
to keep as much as that as possible then
take your smooth knife and cut down
between the breast meat and the leg do
that on the other side as well so both
of the legs are fairly free now what I'm
going to do is pop the joints out so
press with your hand on the body of the
bird push up with this hand and you'll
see the bones just pop loose of the
sockets next I'm going to just cut
around that joint turn the bird over and
remember I made those cuts across here
earlier on we're going to join the two
cuts up I'm going to cut around that way
stir around here
just release in any tendons I'm keeping
the leg on and there's one leg off again
I'll just check there's nothing stopping
me from cutting through on this side
turn your boat over join the cuts up and
take your knife through so already we've
got two lovely leg portions now I'm
going to neaten these up and turn them
in the drumsticks and thighs so the
chicken will tell you where to cut if
you look for a fat line between the two
pieces of meat and that's where the
joint is I'm going to try and find that
joint with the tip of my knife here we
go and make a clean cut through and then
if you want to take the ends of the legs
off as well you can just feel where that
joint is your knife in and cut let's get
rid of those and put these onto a plate
let's do the same on this one feel for
the joint and make a clean cut through
there's the thigh portion just find the
right place there we go okay so that's
the legs dealt with let's move on to
taking the breasts off the bird now so
I'm going to show you two different
things first of all I'm going to show
you how to take the breast off with some
bone if you want to roast it because
bone holds in loads of flavor all I'm
going to show you how to take the breast
off completely if you want to skin this
fill it I'm going to take my large knife
first of all I'm going to follow this
line here and that's the breast bone I'm
going to just aim for just to the one
side of that so take your knife and
cut down and just use this knife as a
little bit sharper it's close to the
bone as you can ok we're cutting right
down and we'll go through this bit of
skin here next we're going to take a
really sharp pair of scissors kitchen
scissors or poultry shears I'm going to
cut through the rib bones that join the
breast onto the breastbone keep cutting
through until you come out the other
side next we're going to take it off on
the other side and you know where to cut
if you follow this line of fat around
the side of the breast so and there we
go
nut gives you a whole chicken breast
with the wing and we're going to put
this in two portions so that someone can
have a good piece of breast meat and
someone could have a bit of breast meat
and a wing we're going to take a
diagonal cut like that through the flesh
so there's another two pieces of chicken
for your plate I'm going to show you now
is just how to take the breast meat off
by itself
in case you want that skinless fill it
so again we're looking to go just to the
side of that breast bone and you can use
a large knife if you like I'm gonna
using my small one make several cuts
down and I'm just following let me cut
through the skin so you can see what I'm
doing properly
I'm following the shape of the rib cage
underneath this Philip you can see that
I'm take my knife around and under
and we'll follow that fat line that
shows us where to go okay and there is a
neat chicken breast
ready to cook put that onto my plate and
you've got the bones here if you want to
make your own stock beautifully
portioned chicken ready to cook it's a
far more economical than buying pieces
so have a go at junk to your own chicken